# Implement a non-relational data model

## Learning objectives

-   Determine access patterns for data.
-   Apply data model and partitioning strategies to support an efficient and scalable NoSQL database.

## What will we be doing?

In this module, we'll take our existing relational data model and redesign it as a NoSQL database for our e-commerce application. During this process, you'll learn the following concepts:

-   **Differences between relational versus NoSQL databases**: You'll explore some of the differences between NoSQL databases and relational databases and why they are that way.
-   **Using application data access patterns to model data**: You'll learn how understanding the way an application reads and writes data influences how to model it for a NoSQL database.
-   **Embedding versus referencing**: You'll learn when you should embed data within the same document versus when you should store data as a separate document.
-   **Choosing a partition key**: You'll learn key concepts needed for choosing the best partition key to avoid hot partitions and optimize workloads that are either read or write heavy, or both.
-   **Modeling lookup or reference data**: Finally, you'll learn how to model data that's used as a lookup or reference for other data.

## When should you embed data?

Embed data in a document when the following criteria apply to your data:

-   **Read or updated together**: Data that's read or updated together is nearly always modeled as a single document. This is especially true because our objective for our NoSQL model is to reduce the number of requests to our database. In our scenario, all of the customer entities are read or written together.
-   **1:1 relationship**: For example, **Customer** and **CustomerPassword** have a 1:1 relationship.
-   **1:Few relationship**: In a NoSQL database, it's necessary to distinguish 1:Many relationships as bounded or unbounded. **Customer** and **CustomerAddress** have a bounded 1:Many relationship because customers in an e-commerce application normally have only a handful of addresses to ship to. When the relationship is bounded, this is a 1:Few relationship.

## When should you reference data?

Reference data as separate documents when the following criteria apply to your data:

-   **Read or updated independently**: This is especially true where combining entities that would result in large documents. Updates in Azure Cosmos DB require the entire item to be replaced. If a document has a few properties that are frequently updated alongside a large number of mostly static properties, it's much more efficient to split the document into two. One document then contains the smaller set of properties that are updated frequently. The other document contains the static, unchanging values.
    
-   **1:Many relationship**: This is especially true if the relationship is unbounded. Azure Cosmos DB has a maximum document size of 2 MB. So in situations where the 1:Many relationship is unbounded or can grow extremely large, data should be referenced, not embedded.
    
-   **Many:Many relationship**: We'll explore an example of this relationship in a later unit with product tags.
    
    Separating these properties reduces throughput consumption for more efficiency. It also reduces latency for better performance.
	
	
	## Learn more

-   [Understanding the differences between NoSQL and relational databases](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/relational-nosql)
-   [Data modeling in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/modeling-data)
-   [How to model and partition data on Azure Cosmos DB using a real-world example](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/how-to-model-partition-example)
-   [Partitioning and horizontal scaling in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/partitioning-overview)
-   [Partitioning strategy and provisioned throughput costs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/optimize-cost-throughput#partitioning-strategy-and-provisioned-throughput-costs)