# Measure performance in Azure Cosmos DB SQL API

## Learning objectives

-   Understand how Azure Cosmos DB uses Azure Monitor to monitor server-side metrics
-   Measure Cosmos DB's throughput
-   Observe rate-limiting events
-   Query telemetry logs
-   Measure cross-partition storage distribution throughput


Monitor for Cosmos DB can be used to:

-   Monitor data
-   Collection and routing
-   Analyze metrics
-   Analyze logs
-   Create Alerts
-   Monitor Azure Cosmos DB Programmatically

### Monitor data

The Overview page in the Azure portal for each Azure Cosmos database includes a brief view including the requests and hourly billing for the database. This summary is just a small set of the metrics being collected by the Azure Monitor. Besides the hourly billing and request metrics that the Cosmos Database Overview page displays, Azure Monitor collects other request metrics plus request units, storage, latency, availability, and Casandra API metrics.

### Collection and routing

By default Azure Monitor collects and stores Cosmos DB metrics automatically. Azure Monitor can also route those metrics to other locations by using a diagnostic setting. Unlike metrics, Resource Logs aren't collected and stored without first creating a diagnostic setting to route them.

### Analyze metrics

To analyze Cosmos DB metrics, use the metrics explorer by opening **Metrics** from the **Azure Monitor** menu in the Azure portal. To filter out the Cosmos DB metrics, pick  _Cosmos DB standard metrics_ from the _Metric Namespace_ pulldown. Other filters can be added for the collection name, database name, operation type, region, and status code dimensions.

### Analyze logs

Azure Monitor Logs data is stored into tables. Queries can be run against these tables to analyze their data. Azure Cosmos DB stores log data into the `AzureDiagnostics` and `AzureActivity` tables. To search the AzureDiagnostics table for Azure Cosmos DB entries, include a filter with the `resourceprovider` field equals to `MICROSOFT.DOCUMENTDB` in your queries. Additionally, Azure Cosmos DB also logs data to several resource-specific tables.

### Alerts

Azure Monitor can trigger alerts based on defined conditions. These alerts can be set on metrics, logs, and the activity log. For example, you can get an alert when a container or a database has exceeded the provisioned throughput limit.

### Monitor Azure Cosmos DB programmatically

The SQL APIs don't include account level metrics like storage usage and total requests. The SQL APIs however, provide collection level metrics either using the REST API or the .NET SDK.

---

## Query logs
The SQL API log tables are:

-   `DataPlaneRequests` - This table logs back-end requests for operations that execute create, update, delete, or retrieve data.
-   `QueryRuntimeStatistics` - This table logs query operations against the SQL API account.
-   `PartitionKeyStatistics` - This table logs logical partition key statistics in estimated KB. It's helpful when troubleshooting skew storage.
-   `PartitionKeyRUConsumption` - This table logs every second aggregated RU/s consumption of partition keys. It's helpful when troubleshooting hot partitions.
-   `ControlPlaneRequests` - This table logs Azure Cosmos DB account control data, for example adding or removing regions in the replication settings.

---

## Learn more


-   [Azure Monitor overview](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview)
-   [Monitor Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-cosmos-db)
-   [Monitoring Azure Cosmos DB data reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-cosmos-db-reference)
-   [How to monitor throughput or request unit usage of an operation in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/monitor-request-unit-usage)
-   [Optimize your Azure Cosmos DB application using rate limiting](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/rate-limiting-requests)
-   [Diagnose and troubleshoot Azure Cosmos DB request rate too large (429) exceptions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/sql/troubleshoot-request-rate-too-large)
-   [Troubleshoot issues with diagnostics queries](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/cosmosdb-monitor-logs-basic-queries)
-   [Monitor Azure Cosmos DB data by using diagnostic settings in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/cosmosdb-monitor-resource-logs)
-   [Create diagnostic settings to send Azure Monitor platform logs and metrics to different destinations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/diagnostic-settings)
-   [Tutorial: Use Kusto queries (Azure Monitor)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/tutorial?pivots=azuremonitor)
----

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/measure-performance-azure-cosmos-db-sql-api/