# Implement backup and restore for Azure Cosmos DB SQL API

## Learning objectives

-   Understand the different backup and restore options Azure Cosmos DB provides
-   Evaluate periodic backups
-   Configure continuous backups
-   Do point in time recovery


#### Considerations for restoring a backup
==Scenarios to consider==:
-   Delete the entire Azure Cosmos DB account.
-   Delete one or more Azure Cosmos DB databases.
-   Delete one or more Azure Cosmos DB containers.
-   Delete or modify the Azure Cosmos DB items within a container. This specific case is typically referred to as data corruption.


==Settings that are not restored to the new account==:
-   VNET access control lists
-   Stored procedures, triggers, and user-defined functions
-   Multi-region settings


==Manage your own backups==
-   Use Azure Data Factory to periodically copy your data to a storage location.
-   Use the _Azure Cosmos DB change feed_ to get the incremental changes and copy those changes to a storage location.


==I restored a copy of my data, now what?==
-   Use Azure Data Factory.
-   Use the Azure Cosmos DB data migration tool.
-   Use the Azure Cosmos DB change feed.
-   Write your own data migration app in your preferred programming language.

---
#### Limitations when using the continuous backup mode

-   Azure Cosmos DB accounts using customer-managed keys are not supported.
-   Multi-region write accounts not supported.
-   You can't restore an account into a region where the source account did not exist.
-   The retention period is 30 days and can't be changed.
-   Can't modify or delete IAM policies when restore is in progress.
-   Accounts that create unique indexes after the container is created are not supported.
-   Point in time restore always restores to a new Azure Cosmos DB account.
-   Collection's consistent indexes may still be rebuilding after completing the restore.
-   Since TTL container properties are restored with the restore process, restores must be for timestamps before TTL properties were added to a container. This timestamp will prevent data from being deleted right after the restore.
-   Azure Synapse Link and continuous backup mode can't coexist in the same database account.

---
#### Restore Scenarios at point-in-time recovery
-   Restore deleted account - Deleted accounts that can be restored are visible in the **Restore** pane under the Azure Cosmos DB account list page. The information needed for the restore is the timestamp right before the delete, the account name of the deleted account, and the target name to be restored as. Restores can be performed from the Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI.
    
-   Restore data of an account in a particular region - If you need a copy in a region of an Azure Cosmos DB Account you can do a point in time restore of the account. The information needed for the restore is the wished timestamp, and the target name to be restored as. Restores can be performed from the Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI.
    
-   Recover from an accidental write or delete operation within a container with a known restore timestamp - If you know the timestamp when the accidental operation was done, you can do a point in time restore from Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI into another account at the wished timestamp to recover to.
    
-   Restore an account to a previous point in time before the accidental delete of the database - Under the point in time page, use the event feed pane to determine when the database was deleted, and find the restore time. You can do a point in time restore from Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI into another account at the wished timestamp to recover to.
    
-   Restore an account to a previous point in time before the accidental delete or modification of the container properties - Under the point in time page, use the event feed pane to determine when the container was created, modified, or deleted and find the restore time. You can do a point in time restore from Azure portal, PowerShell, or CLI into another account at the wished timestamp to recover to.


---
## Learn more
-   [Online backup and on-demand data restore in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/online-backup-and-restore)
-   [Configure Azure Cosmos DB account with periodic backup](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/configure-periodic-backup-restore)
-   [Continuous backup with point-in-time restore in Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/continuous-backup-restore-introduction)

---
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/learn/modules/implement-backup-restore-for-azure-cosmos-db-sql-api/?WT.mc_id=cloudskillschallenge_0bdd75d2-7737-4c9c-bcb0-bfaf4cc8ec56


